docs/examples/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Examples"
description: "NeqSim code examples and tutorials"
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
---

# NeqSim Examples

This section contains tutorials, code examples, and Jupyter notebooks demonstrating NeqSim capabilities.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start with Google Colab

The easiest way to try NeqSim is through Google Colab - **no installation required!**

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/blob/master/notebooks/examples_of_NeqSim_in_Colab.ipynb)

👆 Click the badge above to open a comprehensive introduction to NeqSim in Colab.

---

## 📚 NeqSim-Colab Notebook Collection

The [NeqSim-Colab repository](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab) contains 100+ notebooks organized by topic:

| Category | Description | Open in Colab |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| **🎓 Getting Started** | Introduction and basic examples | [![Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/blob/master/notebooks/examples_of_NeqSim_in_Colab.ipynb) |
| **🔬 Thermodynamics** | EOS, phase equilibria, flash calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/thermodynamics) |
| **📊 PVT Analysis** | PVT simulations and fluid characterization | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/PVT) |
| **⚙️ Process Simulation** | Equipment, separators, compressors | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/process) |
| **🌊 Fluid Flow** | Pipelines, multiphase flow | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/fluidflow) |
| **🛢️ LNG** | LNG processing and calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/LNG) |
| **💨 Gas Quality** | Gas specifications and calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/gasquality) |
| **🔋 Hydrogen** | Hydrogen systems and storage | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/hydrogen) |
| **⚡ Power** | Power generation, turbines | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/power) |
| **🌿 Emissions** | CO2 capture and emissions | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/emissions) |
| **🧪 Reactions** | Chemical reactions, ammonia | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/reactions) |
| **🛠️ Well Operations** | Well modeling and operations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/well) |
| **🏭 Field Development** | Full field simulations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/fielddevelopment) |
| **🤖 AI/ML Integration** | Machine learning with NeqSim | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/AI) |
| **📏 Standards** | Industry standards (ISO, etc.) | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/standards) |

> 💡 **Tip:** To open any notebook in Colab, replace `github.com` with `colab.research.google.com/github` in the URL.

---

## Jupyter Notebook Tutorials

Interactive Python notebooks from this repository:

| Notebook | Description | View Options |
|----------|-------------|--------------|
| **AIPlatformIntegration** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](AIPlatformIntegration.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/AIPlatformIntegration.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/AIPlatformIntegration.ipynb) |
| **ESP Pump Tutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](ESP_Pump_Tutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/ESP_Pump_Tutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/ESP_Pump_Tutorial.ipynb) |
| **FieldDevelopmentWorkflow** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.ipynb) |
| **GraphBasedProcessSimulation** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](GraphBasedProcessSimulation.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/GraphBasedProcessSimulation.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/GraphBasedProcessSimulation.ipynb) |
| **MPC Integration Tutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](MPC_Integration_Tutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MPC_Integration_Tutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MPC_Integration_Tutorial.ipynb) |
| **NetworkSolverTutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](NetworkSolverTutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/NetworkSolverTutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/NetworkSolverTutorial.ipynb) |
| **PVT Simulation and Tuning** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.ipynb) |
| **TVP RVP Study** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](TVP_RVP_Study.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TVP_RVP_Study.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TVP_RVP_Study.ipynb) |

## Java Examples

Example Java code demonstrating NeqSim APIs:

| Example | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [EclipseE300ExportImportExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/EclipseE300ExportImportExample.java) | Java example |
| [FlowRegimeDebug](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FlowRegimeDebug.java) | Java example |
| [FlowRegimeDetectionExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FlowRegimeDetectionExample.java) | Java example |
| [MultiphaseModelPressureDropComparison](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MultiphaseModelPressureDropComparison.java) | Java example |
| [RealTimeIntegrationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/RealTimeIntegrationExample.java) | Java example |
| [SlugTrackingComparisonExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/SlugTrackingComparisonExample.java) | Java example |
| [TransientPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TransientPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipeExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipeExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipeSlugTrackingExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipeSlugTrackingExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidVsDriftFluxComparisonExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidVsDriftFluxComparisonExample.java) | Java example |
| [WellToOilStabilizationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/WellToOilStabilizationExample.java) | Java example |

## Other Tutorials

Additional documentation and guides:

- [Comparesimulations Quickstart](comparesimulations_quickstart.md)
- [Selective Logic Execution](selective-logic-execution.md)
- [Transient Slug Separator Control Example](transient_slug_separator_control_example.md)

---

## Running the Notebooks

### Prerequisites

1. Install neqsim-python:
   ```bash
   pip install neqsim
   ```

2. Or use Google Colab (click the Colab links above) - no installation needed!

### Local Jupyter Setup

```bash
# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv neqsim-env
source neqsim-env/bin/activate  # On Windows: neqsim-env\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install neqsim jupyter matplotlib pandas numpy

# Start Jupyter
jupyter notebook
```

Then open any of the `.ipynb` files from this directory.

Commit message:

start performance optimization (#1829)
* start performance optimization

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

* add

* multioptimizer

* update

* update

* update

* update

* update

docs/examples/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Examples"
description: "NeqSim code examples and tutorials"
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
---

# NeqSim Examples

This section contains tutorials, code examples, and Jupyter notebooks demonstrating NeqSim capabilities.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start with Google Colab

The easiest way to try NeqSim is through Google Colab - **no installation required!**

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/blob/master/notebooks/examples_of_NeqSim_in_Colab.ipynb)

👆 Click the badge above to open a comprehensive introduction to NeqSim in Colab.

---

## 📚 NeqSim-Colab Notebook Collection

The [NeqSim-Colab repository](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab) contains 100+ notebooks organized by topic:

| Category | Description | Open in Colab |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| **🎓 Getting Started** | Introduction and basic examples | [![Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/blob/master/notebooks/examples_of_NeqSim_in_Colab.ipynb) |
| **🔬 Thermodynamics** | EOS, phase equilibria, flash calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/thermodynamics) |
| **📊 PVT Analysis** | PVT simulations and fluid characterization | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/PVT) |
| **⚙️ Process Simulation** | Equipment, separators, compressors | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/process) |
| **🌊 Fluid Flow** | Pipelines, multiphase flow | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/fluidflow) |
| **🛢️ LNG** | LNG processing and calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/LNG) |
| **💨 Gas Quality** | Gas specifications and calculations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/gasquality) |
| **🔋 Hydrogen** | Hydrogen systems and storage | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/hydrogen) |
| **⚡ Power** | Power generation, turbines | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/power) |
| **🌿 Emissions** | CO2 capture and emissions | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/emissions) |
| **🧪 Reactions** | Chemical reactions, ammonia | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/reactions) |
| **🛠️ Well Operations** | Well modeling and operations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/well) |
| **🏭 Field Development** | Full field simulations | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/fielddevelopment) |
| **🤖 AI/ML Integration** | Machine learning with NeqSim | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/AI) |
| **📏 Standards** | Industry standards (ISO, etc.) | [Browse](https://github.com/EvenSol/NeqSim-Colab/tree/master/notebooks/standards) |

> 💡 **Tip:** To open any notebook in Colab, replace `github.com` with `colab.research.google.com/github` in the URL.

---

## Jupyter Notebook Tutorials

Interactive Python notebooks from this repository:

| Notebook | Description | View Options |
|----------|-------------|--------------|
| **AIPlatformIntegration** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](AIPlatformIntegration.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/AIPlatformIntegration.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/AIPlatformIntegration.ipynb) |
| **ESP Pump Tutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](ESP_Pump_Tutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/ESP_Pump_Tutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/ESP_Pump_Tutorial.ipynb) |
| **FieldDevelopmentWorkflow** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FieldDevelopmentWorkflow.ipynb) |
| **GraphBasedProcessSimulation** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](GraphBasedProcessSimulation.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/GraphBasedProcessSimulation.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/GraphBasedProcessSimulation.ipynb) |
| **MPC Integration Tutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](MPC_Integration_Tutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MPC_Integration_Tutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MPC_Integration_Tutorial.ipynb) |
| **NetworkSolverTutorial** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](NetworkSolverTutorial.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/NetworkSolverTutorial.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/NetworkSolverTutorial.ipynb) |
| **PVT Simulation and Tuning** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/PVT_Simulation_and_Tuning.ipynb) |
| **TVP RVP Study** | See notebook for details | [Markdown](TVP_RVP_Study.md) \| [nbviewer](https://nbviewer.org/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TVP_RVP_Study.ipynb) \| [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TVP_RVP_Study.ipynb) |

## Java Examples

Example Java code demonstrating NeqSim APIs:

| Example | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [EclipseE300ExportImportExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/EclipseE300ExportImportExample.java) | Java example |
| [FlowRegimeDebug](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FlowRegimeDebug.java) | Java example |
| [FlowRegimeDetectionExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/FlowRegimeDetectionExample.java) | Java example |
| [MultiphaseModelPressureDropComparison](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/MultiphaseModelPressureDropComparison.java) | Java example |
| [RealTimeIntegrationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/RealTimeIntegrationExample.java) | Java example |
| [SlugTrackingComparisonExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/SlugTrackingComparisonExample.java) | Java example |
| [TransientPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TransientPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipeExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipeExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipelineLiquidAccumulationExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidPipeSlugTrackingExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidPipeSlugTrackingExample.java) | Java example |
| [TwoFluidVsDriftFluxComparisonExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/TwoFluidVsDriftFluxComparisonExample.java) | Java example |
| [WellToOilStabilizationExample](https://github.com/equinor/neqsim/blob/master/docs/examples/WellToOilStabilizationExample.java) | Java example |

## Other Tutorials

Additional documentation and guides:

- [Production Optimization Guide](PRODUCTION_OPTIMIZATION_GUIDE.md) - Complete guide to production optimization with Java and Python examples
- [Comparesimulations Quickstart](comparesimulations_quickstart.md)
- [Selective Logic Execution](selective-logic-execution.md)
- [Transient Slug Separator Control Example](transient_slug_separator_control_example.md)

---

## Running the Notebooks

### Prerequisites

1. Install neqsim-python:
   ```bash
   pip install neqsim
   ```

2. Or use Google Colab (click the Colab links above) - no installation needed!

### Local Jupyter Setup

```bash
# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv neqsim-env
source neqsim-env/bin/activate  # On Windows: neqsim-env\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install neqsim jupyter matplotlib pandas numpy

# Start Jupyter
jupyter notebook
```

Then open any of the `.ipynb` files from this directory.
